# How to contribute to Curi*OS*

Contributions are what make the open source community such an amazing place to
learn, inspire, and create. Any contributions you make are **greatly appreciated**.

## **Did you find a bug?**

1. **Ensure the bug was not already reported** by searching under [Issues](https://github.com/CuriosLabs/curios-manager/issues).
2. If you're unable to find an open issue addressing the problem,
[open a new one](https://github.com/CuriosLabs/curios-manager/issues/new/choose).
Be sure to include a **title and clear description**, as much relevant information
as possible, and a message error if possible. Be sure to provide as many
informations as possible so we can reproduce the bug.

## **Did you write a patch that fixes a bug?**

* Make sure your code pass the lints tests. Use `just lint`.
* Open a new GitHub pull request with the patch.
* Ensure the PR description clearly describes the problem and solution.
Include the relevant issue number if applicable.

## **Do you intend to add a new feature or change an existing one?**

1. Suggest your change in the [CuriOS Discussions](https://github.com/CuriosLabs/CuriOS/discussions/new?category=ideas-features) and start writing code.
2. Fork the Project
3. Create your "feature" branch (`git checkout -b feature/AmazingFeature`) -
the branch name MUST start with "feature/".
4. Make sure your code pass the lints tests. Use `just lint`.
5. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some AmazingFeature'`).
6. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/AmazingFeature`).
7. Open a Pull Request.

## Did you fix white space, format code, or make a purely cosmetic patch?

Changes that are cosmetic in nature and do not add anything substantial to
the stability, functionality, or testability of Curi*OS* would probably not be accepted.

-----

### AI Assistance Notice

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> If you are using **any kind of AI assistance** to contribute to curios-manager,
> it must be disclosed in the pull request.

If you are using any kind of AI assistance while contributing to curios-manager
**this must be disclosed in the pull request**, along with the extent to
which AI assistance was used (e.g. docs only vs. code generation).
If PR responses are being generated by an AI, disclose that as well.
As a small exception, trivial tab-completion doesn't need to be disclosed,
so long as it is limited to single keywords or short phrases.

An example disclosure:

> This PR was written primarily by Claude Code.

Or a more detailed disclosure:

> I consulted ChatGPT to understand the codebase but the solution
> was fully authored manually by myself.

Failure to disclose this is first and foremost rude to the human operators
on the other end of the pull request, but it also makes it difficult to
determine how much scrutiny to apply to the contribution.

When using AI assistance, we expect contributors to understand the code that
is produced and be able to answer critical questions about it. It isn't a
maintainers job to review a PR so broken that it requires significant
rework to be acceptable.

Please be respectful to maintainers and disclose AI assistance.

Don't forget to give the project a star! Thanks! ❤️
